(enchanting music)
(light beams whoosh)
(theme music begins)
♪ Oh, yeah, breathe in deep
♪ Trying to take the leap
♪ Believe you can fly
♪ Become the wind
♪ Soar beyond the unknown
(theme music continues)
♪ Can't hold back
this lightning speed ♪
♪ Trust your heart
will take the lead ♪
♪ Never turning back and
never letting fate decide ♪
♪ Skies ahead may not be blue
♪ That don't mean we
can't break through ♪
♪ Leave your cares behind
♪ We'll never know
until we try ♪
♪ So what can we say
♪ We'll blaze our own way
♪ We'll make it up
♪ We're cranking
up the altitude ♪
♪ Oh, yeah, breathe in
deep, gonna take the leap ♪
♪ Sail into the sky
♪ Over the horizon,
adventure waits ♪
♪ It's calling you
♪ Don't dare think twice
♪ Just take the dive
♪ Yeah, become the wind
♪ And soar beyond the unknown
♪ Chasing the
light of tomorrow ♪
♪ Illuminate a new,
and glorious world ♪
[Narrator] Guided by the
power of the eight crests,
a new chapter of
the Digi-Destined's
great adventure had begun.
Who knows what trials
and tribulations
they'll need to
face in their fight
against the Great Catastrophe?
Meanwhile, the Digi-Destined
were being targeted.
[Nanomon] Izzy Izumi.
Izzy Izumi.
[Tentomon] Who'd thought
we'd end up here?
Ah, memories.
Yeah, something like that.
(explosion)
It's funny, I never thought
we'd see this place again.
Huh?
[Tentomon] This bedhead
is really bumming me out.
Bedhead?
Man, I could totally see why.
(Izzy gasping)
-(Agumon giggling)
-[Tentomon] Agumon!
Yo!
What a coincidence.
[Izzy] Tai!
[Tai] Our destination's
been changing a lot lately.
Interesting.
I wonder why that is.
[Nanomon] Izzy.
[Tentomon] What happened?
[Nanomon] Izzy Izumi.
Izzy.
-(suspenseful music)
-Izzy Izumi.
Izzy Izumi.
[Tai] Show yourself!
Who are you?
-(mysterious music)
-(group yelping)
I am Nanomon.
I am one who loves knowledge.
I'm the number one expert
on knowledge among Digimon.
You're the number one what?
[Tentomon] Yeah,
I don't like it.
[Nanomon] You are Izzy Izumi,
one who also loves knowledge.
Let's you and I have a contest
to see which one of us is the
greatest expert on knowledge.
-Huh?
-But we-
[Nanomon] You do not have
a choice in the matter!
(dramatic music)
It's Whamon!
Wait, I know that name.
That's the Digimon
you met in the
network before, isn't it?
[Izzy] Yeah.
[Nanomon] You see, I know
everything about you,
Izzy Izumi.
Everything.
[Tentomon] Ew!
Creepy!
-(metal grinding)
-(group gasping)
(crash)
-(mysterious music)
-(Grandkuwagamon roaring)
What's that?
[Tentomon] Something
we should try to avoid.
[Nanomon] The Mega
Digimon, Grandkuwagamon.
And Whamon is about to become
Grandkuwagamon's lunch.
(Izzy growling)
The only way for
you to free Whamon
is for you to win the game.
All right.
I accept.
I'll play your game.
[Nanomon] Very well.
Then I will now
explain the rules.
If you can navigate your way
through this dungeon I built,
and find me, and tag me,
the victory will be yours.
The time limit is 30 minutes.
Along the way, there
will be riddles to solve.
If you cannot solve
these riddles,
you will never find me.
(Izzy growling)
Now, without further ado,
let the game begin!
(computer ringing)
[Computer Voice] Ride the
flowing breath of nature
and proceed onwards and upwards.
I assume this must be the key
to picking the right entrance.
(Tai sighing)
I wonder what this
flowing breath
of nature could be.
I got it!
Look here.
This is the only tunnel
with grass growing in it.
Hey, you're right, Tai!
Sure seems like nature to me.
(Izzy gasping)
What's wrong?
The right and left tunnels have
a slight wind
flowing through them.
It's blowing out on the right
and blowing in on the left.
-(wind howling)
-(Tai chuckling)
Maybe this wind is
the breath of nature
that the riddle
is talking about.
If we're supposed
to ride the wind,
we want the wind blowing
in, not blowing out.
-So the left one!
-(Tai giggling)
-(Izzy giggling)
[Nanomon] Good for you.
It seems you've solved
half the riddle.
(group gasping)
Man, that's cold!
Onward and upward.
Maybe that means we have
to jump over the water.
[Agumon] Well, let's go!
(Tai growling)
(Agumon groaning)
(Izzy panting)
(Izzy yelping)
(Izzy yelling)
(alarm buzzing)
[Computer Voice] Incorrect.
Huh?
(metal banging)
[Tentomon] Well,
that can't be good.
(Izzy gasping)
Tai? Tai!
(suspenseful music)
[Nanomon] Izzy Izumi,
that was incorrect.
Tai!
[Nanomon] The flowing breath
of nature has two meanings.
One is wind, the other is...
Wait a second.
[Nanomon] Yes.
You were supposed to
ride the flowing water
and then proceed
onward and upward
to a different tunnel.
[Izzy] So that's what it meant.
[Nanomon] If you
just used your head,
I'm sure you can find
the hidden meanings.
But in the meantime, it looks
like I've taken the lead.
(Izzy growling)
Hey, what'd you do with Tai?
That's what I wanna know!
[Nanomon] This is the
penalty you must pay.
-Tai!
[Nanomon] Every time
you make a mistake,
I will take one of your friends.
You'll what?
[Nanomon] And once I have them,
your friends will undergo
surgery to become Nanomon!
(Izzy gasping)
No, Tai!
You just keep going, Izzy.
Don't worry about me.
I'll be all right.
[Nanomon] You have
20 minutes left.
(Izzy gasping)
[Tentomon] Come on, then.
We'd better hurry!
We're coming for you, buddy!
[Izzy Voiceover] It's my fault.
I'm to blame.
[Tentomon] Izzy.
[Izzy] Now what?
[Computer Voice] On the
unlighted dance floor,
a waltz at three o'clock
will reveal the path.
[Tentomon] That
must be about which
bridge we're supposed
to choose, right?
The unlighted dance floor.
Well it can't be
the middle bridge
because that one
is super bright.
Should probably stay
away from it, actually.
It seems kind of dangerous.
That fire.
[Tentomon] What are
you thinking, Izzy?
Tentomon.
Those flames.
Don't they look kind of
like they're dancing?
[Tentomon] Now that
you mention it.
[Izzy Voiceover] Is
this the right bridge?
What if I'm wrong again?
[Tentomon] Well,
one way to find out!
If you say this bridge
is the one, Izzy,
then it must be the one!
Hey, wait for me!
Yeah, me too!
[Group] Ready and go!
-(group yelling)
-(suspenseful music)
[Tentomon] Hey.
This bridge isn't hot at all.
Where'd the other bridges go?
Those bridges in flames
were just projected images.
And a projected imagine
requires a light source,
so the unlighted dance floor
was just another
name for the bridge
that wasn't a projection!
[Tentomon] Oh!
I knew you'd pick the
right dance floor, Izzy.
[Izzy] Yeah.
But the question is,
what do we do now?
-(Agumon giggling)
-(Izzy gasping)
[Tentomon] Well, we
shake our groove thang!
Guys, guys, this isn't
the real dance floor!
It said a waltz at
three o'clock, right?
I've got it!
When you're giving directions,
sometimes the
easiest thing to do
is use the face of a clock.
Straight ahead is 12 o' clock
and three o'clock
is to the right,
so that means the right
side of the bridge.
And speaking of three,
a waltz is in 3/4 time.
So that means...
(suspenseful music)
(Agumon gasping)
You hop three times
on your right foot
on the right side.
(computer beeping)
[Computer Voice] Correct.
[Tai] All right!
Way to go, Izzy.
15 minutes left.
(Nanomon snickering)
[Computer Voice]
The last riddle.
Break the endless
darkness of oneself
and head into the past.
Oneself.
Meaning myself.
What could it be?
The endless darkness.
I bet it's something
really dark.
Something like...
[Izzy] Maybe that over there?
[Nanomon] Izzy Izumi.
It's taking you quite a
bit of time, isn't it?
(Izzy gasping)
(Izzy growling)
Pulverize that rock over there!
[Tentomon] You got it!
Petit Thunder!
Pepper Breath!
(explosion)
[Computer Voice] Incorrect.
(group yelling)
(Agumon groaning)
Agumon, thank
goodness you're oka-
Agumon!
-(suspenseful music)
-Where's Tentomon?
Tentomon!
[Nanomon] So
pathetic, Izzy Izumi.
As I said, I am the number
one expert on knowledge!
(Izzy growling)
Everyone's gone, because of me!
[Nanomon] Why do
you waste your time
with those know-nothings?
Let me tell you the answer.
[Izzy] Shut up!
Come on, Izzy.
[Nanomon] Very well.
Then let me grant the
loser a special penalty.
Come on!
(Izzy gasping)
(suspenseful music)
(chimes ringing)
[Tentomon] Watch out, Izzy!
[Izzy] Tentomon!
(Nanomon growling)
[Tentomon] Sorry about that.
It was touch and go
there for awhile,
but Izzy, you're okay?
(explosion)
-(Izzy yelling)
-(Tentomon yelling)
I'm gonna feel that
in the morning.
[Izzy] I'm the one who's sorry.
It's all my fault.
[Tentomon] No.
It's not your fault-
It is my fault!
I lost, and now, everyone is-
[Tentomon] You haven't lost!
You can't give up that easily!
Tai, Agumon, Whamon,
everyone's waiting!
They're counting on you, Izzy!
Tentomon.
I'll play your
game one more time.
And this time, I'll solve
the riddle for sure!
[Nanomon] Now that's
more like it, Izzy Izumi.
Very well.
I gladly accept your challenge!
Let's go!
[Tentomon] All right!
We're back in business!
Come on, guys.
You can do it.
[Nanomon] Well, well then.
Find me if you can!
[Izzy Voiceover]
Endless darkness.
Oneself.
The past.
I can't make any more mistakes.
Think.
Think!
[Tentomon] Hey Izzy.
(Izzy gasping)
Just relax.
Think it over until
you're satisfied
you've got it right.
We haven't got time!
[Tentomon] We'll make
up the time, by flying!
My speedy wings will
take us where you want!
-(Izzy giggling)
-And don't forget it!
Thanks, Tentomon.
(Tentomon chuckling)
(splash)
Wonder how deep it is.
[Tentomon] My bedhead
is as bad as ever.
Looks fine to me.
The endless darkness of oneself.
[Tentomon] What now?
A mirror's not the only thing
you can see yourself
reflected in.
[Tentomon] What, did
you figure it out?
Your reflection on
the water's surface,
that's oneself.
And if I...
(Tentomon gasping)
[Tentomon] That's how
you'll break the darkness.
[Izzy] I think it means we're
supposed to jump in here.
But I still don't understand
the second half of the riddle.
[Tentomon] This is
an awfully big risk.
But I believe in you, Izzy.
If you say you
wanna take a gamble,
then take a gamble.
I'm with you to the end!
You sure, Tentomon?
[Computer Voice] Five
minutes remaining.
Then let's do it.
[Tentomon] Ready.
(Izzy yelling)
(splash)
[Nanomon] It's not over yet!
The best part of the
game is coming up!
[Tentomon] Tentomon
digivolve to!
[Kabuterimon] Kabuterimon!
All right!
We're here, Izzy!
(Izzy gasping)
[Izzy] Whamon!
(Whamon growling)
(Izzy gasping)
Grandkuwagamon!
(crash)
(Grandkuwagamon roaring)
You ready?
[Kabuterimon] You know it!
[Kabuterimon]
Kabuterimon digivolve to!
[MegaKabuterimon]
MegaKabuterimon!
(MegaKabuterimon roaring)
Horn Blaster!
(MegaKabuterimon growling)
[Nanomon] Break the
endless darkness of oneself
and head into the past.
Remember, in order to win,
you have to find me and tag me.
And you still don't
know where I am, do you?
(Izzy growling)
(MegaKabuterimon yelling)
(crash)
Whamon, don't worry, we...
(Izzy gasping)
(mysterious music)
My own reflection.
Endless darkness.
(Izzy gasping)
The past!
(sad horn music)
[MegaKabuterimon] Izzy,
what did you discover?
It just came to me.
So far, all of the riddles
have had two meanings.
The flowing breath of
nature was wind and water.
The lightless
dance floor was the
projection of
flames and bridges.
And the endless
darkness of oneself
is my reflection on the
water and something else.
A place that only we would know
because we were
there in the past!
[MegaKabuterimon] So,
you've figured out
Nanomon's location.
Nicely done.
Whatever you decide, Izzy,
I'll do anything to help.
MegaKabuterimon.
Because you were there for me,
I was able to believe in myself!
With a friend like
you by my side,
I can do anything!
[MegaKabuterimon] That's right.
And when Izzy's knowledge and
my powers are combined,
we're invincible!
(Grandkuwagamon growling)
[MegaKabuterimon]
MegaKabuterimon digivolve to!
(upbeat rock music)
[HerculesKabuterimon]
HerculesKabuterimon!
Izzy, the power of your
bold and strong will
has touched my heart!
(HerculesKabuterimon growling)
The game is just beginning.
[Izzy] HerculesKabuterimon!
[HerculesKabuterimon]
Yes, I see.
In that case, I have an idea.
[Tai] Yeah, Izzy!
[Agumon] Go, go!
[Nanomon] What?
(Nanomon yelling)
(Nanomon gasping)
[Agumon] Whamon's on fire!
[Nanomon] But how?
What is going on out there?
(upbeat rock music)
[Izzy] Do it,
HerculesKabuterimon!
(HerculesKabuterimon
laughing evilly)
[HerculesKabuterimon] Let's
burn it all to the ground!
[Nanomon] Izzy Izumi's
attacking his friends?
But why?
(upbeat rock music)
What?
The fire was a fake!
[HerculesKabuterimon]
That's right!
And you totally fell for it!
(Nanomon groaning)
[Izzy] I knew it!
You were inside Whamon!
[Nanomon] But how?
I saw the fire!
[Izzy] What you saw was footage
of those flames at the bridge,
repurposed to make it look like
Whamon was on fire.
[HerculesKabuterimon]
I came up with the idea
of luring you out of
your hiding place,
and Izzy made it happen.
It was a trap created
by the both of us!
(Nanomon growling)
Go, HerculesKabuterimon!
(HerculesKabuterimon roaring)
-(HerculesKabuterimon growling)
-(upbeat rock music)
[Nanomon] That's impossible!
I can never lose!
Never!
(Nanomon gasping)
(upbeat rock music)
[HerculesKabuterimon] Take this!
Giga Blaster!
(Nanomon yelling)
Believe me, I can understand
your love for knowledge.
But using that knowledge to
hurt others is just wrong.
And this time, I win.
Game over.
(bright piano music)
-(Izzy chuckling)
-(HerculesKabuterimon giggling)
Whoa.
What are they doing here?
Hey!
(Nanomon groaning)
[Nanomon] Wow!
It's Izzy Izumi in person!
I'm so excited to meet you!
You can call me Nanomon.
[Tentomon] Well there's
a personality change.
[Nanomon] How thrilling!
Ever since I heard about
you from Garbagemon,
I've been so looking
forward to meeting you.
[Izzy] Wait.
You know Garbagemon?
[Nanomon] Sure!
We're research buddies.
But by the way, where
am I and why am I here?
Someone must've manipulated him.
[Izzy] Huh?
I saw Soundbirdmon
fly away just now.
[Tentomon] Say what?
And we know that Soundbirdmon
were Devimon's minions.
But Devimon is gone now, right?
Still, those Soundbirdmon
were able to manipulate Digi-
[Nanomon] Izzy Izumi, come on!
Come and play a game with me!
(Izzy giggling)
I've played enough
games for today.
(digivice beeping)
Isn't that?
You just gained the
crest's power, Izzy!
♪ The colors blend
in the horizon ♪
♪ Speeding straight
into a new sun rising ♪
♪ Never ending seas and
the blue of the sky ♪
♪ It lies ahead the path
♪ To what you hope to find
♪ Well that's right
we'll fly forever ♪
♪ You know the time to start
♪ Is now or never
♪ Soaring overseas through
the blue of the sky ♪
♪ Tomorrow lies ahead
♪ In wait for us to find
♪ Smile on
♪ We're beyond the point
of no return now ♪
♪ So bring it on
♪ Yeah, bring it on
♪ We can see the writing
on the wall now ♪
♪ We'll battle on
♪ Oh, we're not done
♪ even if they say that
we're running aground now ♪
♪ We're flying on
♪ Flying on
♪ 'Cause we're the ones who have
something we're fighting for! ♪
[Izzy] The Digimon Encyclopedia!
HerculesKabuterimon!
This mega Digimon digivolves
from MegaKabuterimon,
has a giant horn and pincers,
and flies around the
world at sonic speed!
[Tentomon Voiceover]
Now let's check me out!
[Izzy Voiceover] Hey Tentomon.
[Tentomon Voiceover]
Despite my tough body,
my wings are pretty thin,
but I work them
as hard as I can.
I can promise you
a safe ride, Izzy!
[Izzy] Awesome!
(victorious music)
Which Digimon will
it be next time?
[Narrator] With his pride
as the leader on the line,
Joe challenges the fearsome
Olegmon to a battle.
[Tai Voiceover] Next time
on "Digimon Adventure:
Vikemon Ventures the Glaciers."
[Narrator] The adventure
continues in a new world.